Replication controller is in charge of making additional pods, in case of crush of one important pod with an application.\
In other scenario, when load is too much, replication controller is in charge of creating new pods **even across different nodes**.

-------
Replicat Set is a new Replication Controller.

-------
Template section in spec rc yaml, is a instruction, what this replication controller have to create.

-----

Replicas section is a number how many replicas RC will create.

--------
Creating RC:
`kubectl create -f replicaname.yaml`

-----
`kubectl get replicationcontroller` is for getting info about RCs.

--------
In a replica set, apiversion section should be `apps/v$`\
Replica set requires **selector definition**.
This can help manage the pods that are not of part of replica set creation!

---------

Labels and selectors are helpful for replica sets to know, which pods to monitor.

------
Even when we creates 3 pods on a node without Rc/Replica set, when we specify the replicas number as 3 - THEY will not be created. BUT replica set, can quickly create if some of them crash. 

---
If in the future we want more replicas, we can change the replicas section in yaml, and then use:\
`kubectl replace -f rc.yaml` or\
`kubectl scale --replicas=6 -f rc.yaml` but **then file will not be changed.**

`kubectl edit rs (nameofareplica)` for editing running replica sets.


----

Showing how many rc we have on a cluster:\
`kubectl get replicaset` or `kubectl get rs`

---------
`kubectl explain replicaset` for more explanation about replica sets!

-------
Scaling existing working replica set:\
`kubectl scale rs (nameofreplica) --replicas=$`
