Seervices serves as a tool to connect different groups of pods, connecting pods to the users, connecting pods to databases.

Node has specific address, but a pod there is in another network, and has different address completely. In that scenario we cannnot see e.g. webpage.

Solutions:

1. ssh between a computer and a node, and then curl to the pod. (accessing inside the node).
2. Curl from computer to the pod. (**Node pod service** used).

-------
Services:
- NodePort
- ClusterIP (creates virtual IP inside the cluster for getting information between services)
- LoadBalancer

-----
### NodePort Service

**NodePort is a name of a service but also the name of port that gives access to the node. Service object has his own port with simple name *port***

Inside a node there are:
1. Target port (port on a pod).
2. IP address of a POD.
3. Port (port on a NodePort Service object)
4. ClusterIP of this NodePort Service (IP address of that specific service on a cluster).
5. NodePort (port on a Node).

For creation of services we use definition files.
Spec section has:
- type (type of service we creates)
- ports (ports on service, pod, node)

**THE PORT on SERVICE OBJECT is MANDATORY in YAML file.** If we don't provide the target port - then will be the same as port on a service object. Node port for a node, will be allocated automatically.

**PODS CAN HAVE THE SAME PORT** - that's why we use labels, like in replicas. **Selector section** will link the service to the pod.

`kubectl create -f service service-definition.yaml`\
`kubectl get services`\
`curl (ip addres of a node):NodePort` for accessing the pod from outside **finally**!

If we have more than a one pod on a node, the service is using labels to **access all of them**.

----------

If pods are on different nodes in the cluster, then the service is mapping the pods the same - with a labels, but **the NodePort (entrance) is the same** on different nodes. BUT WE HAVE TO SPECIFY A NODE ADDRESS before typing a curl command with the same NodePort. 

---------

### Cluster IP service 

The pods can access another group of pods by a Services of **ClusterIP**. ClusterIps are created by yaml files. 
**ClusterIP is a default service created at launch.**

-----------

### Loadbalancer 

Service that is created on a VM where the whole cluster is placed, or in the Cloud env. 

---------
**Selectors in the services and labels on pods are responsible for directing the movement.**
